---
title: Step 4
subtitle: Hours of Delay Analysis Components
date: 2017-10-01T11:57:10.000Z
tag: 0204
guideNumber: 2
image1: img/blog/quick-template-4.jpg
image2: img/blog/quick-template-4b.jpg
image3: img/blog/quick-template-4c.jpg
---

# &nbsp; 
#### Image 1: Hours of Delay Visualizations, 2015 vs 2016
The top two graphs in this template show Hours of Delay for 2015 (on the right) and 2016 (on the left). The Hours of Delay Graph component shows hours of delay by time of day and by TMC segment. The graph also sums the hours of delay by TMC segment for the entire year (on the right side of the graph) and proceeds to sum all Hours of Delay for the entire route for the entire year (bottom right).   

#### Image 2: Info Compare Component
The info compare component allows the user to compare one route against another, or one set of time bounds for a given route against a different set of time bounds for that same route. In this case we are comparing 2015 data to 2016 data for the same route. This component currently compares 2015 to 2016. 2015 was 4.7% slower in terms of speed, had a 4.5% slower travel time, etc. You can change which route is the compare route by clicking on the route name in the dropdown next to the title "Info Compare Component." You can then change the "Compare To" to 2016 to see that 2016 is 4.7% faster, etc. This will also change the color of the graph from RED (slower/worse) to GREEN (faster/better).

#### Image 3: Transcom Incidents and Line Graphs
The last few graphs on this Template allow you to view the Speeds and Hours of Delay by hour of day and Transcom Incidents by type and number. In the Line Graphs, The Blue Line represents 2015, the Red Line represents 2016. The first Line Graph shows avg speed by time of day, the second graph shows Hours of Delay by time of day. The First Transcom Graph is a stacked bar graph summary of Transcom Incidents for each year (2016 is on the left, 2015 is on the right). The second shows incidents by time of day (right) and by percentage of occurance of types of incident (left donut graph).
