---
title: Step 3
subtitle: Compare a Single Day (Incident) Against an Average Day
date: 2017-08-28T12:01:10.000Z
tag: 0403
guideNumber: 4
image1: img/blog/data-params-2a.jpg
image2: img/blog/data-params-2b.jpg
image3: img/blog/data-params-2c.jpg

---


### Image 1: Average Day
Once you have 2 routes in your route component list (you can click the + icon in the row next to your route name to copy that route into a 2nd route component, if you have more than two routes, click the - icon to remove routes), let's organize the settings for an Average Day in 2017 by clicking on the route. You should see three data parameter settings in this "Simple" view. They are Year (2017), Month (All), and Peak Selector (Select each peak button to set time bounds of 6:00am - 7:00pm). If you see more settings click on the word "Simple" at the top of the data parameters menu.

### Image 2: Incident Day
Then set up the incident dates by clicking on the second route. Click on the work "Advanced" at the top of the data parameters menu to access the fine-grained data parameters and resolution settings. You'll now want to set up your date bounds, in this case 11/21/2016 is the start and end date. Then click on each of the Peak selectors to select your time bounds 6:00am-7:00pm. The rest of your data settings should be defaulted to 5 minute resolution, All Vehicles, and Mon-Fri. Now click "Load All Data" at the top of the data parameters menu.

### Image 3: Compare Incident to Avg Day
Click the X at the top right to close the menu. The graph on the top left show the average speed for every 5 minute epoch for 2017 (red line) vs the raw speeds for November 21, 2016 (blue line). The graph on the top right compares the average speed and travel time (of the entire time period selected 6:00am-7:00pm) of 11/21/16 to the Average Day. The two graphs at the bottom are TMC Grid Graphs which show speeds by TMC by time of day. The dark red indicates slow speeds. The direction of travel is from top to bottom. 