---
title: Step 3
subtitle: Modify your Template
date: 2017-10-01T12:00:05.000Z
tag: 0703
guideNumber: 7
image1: img/blog/quick-guide-3.jpg
image2: img/blog/quick-guide-3b.jpg
image3: img/blog/quick-guide-3c.jpg
---

# &nbsp; 
#### Image 1: View and Chang Data Parameters

Click on a Route Componenet in the left navigation menu to view the data parameters and click Simple/Advanced toggle button to and choose Advanced setting as shown on image. 


#### Image 2: Customize data/time and resolution 
 
The “Advanced” tools (red box) for data parameters settings include detailed parameter settings for looking at almost any date/time bounds and time resolution. Choose different date by typing in or usinng calander in Start/End date, you can pick different Start/End time using Peak selectors. You can also choose weekdays or weekendns, resolutions of 5-min, 15-min, hour, day, weekday, month, and year, and Trucks, Passenger Vehicles, and All Vehicles. Lastly, you can download raw data from data datadownlad.

You can also copy and paste your route as a new layer by clicking + sign (red arrow) in a route layer. In this new layer you can open advanced tools again and change data parementers into different date/time for comparension into other time frame. For instance, average of each season vs average of a full year.


#### Image 3: Add more graphs and save it to New Report
 Under + Graph, all graphs used for the template are listed. Click + Graph button (red arrow) and you can get Graphs tools window (red box). This will show all available Graphs aligned by Line Graphs, Bar Graphs, Grid Graphs, Info Graphs, Incidents Graphs, and Maps and you can add as many as graph tools into the current template by clicking each graph name. You can delete each graph by clicking x mark on right top on each graph.  Lastly, you can save your curstermiazed verion of template into your new report by clicking save button (red arrow) and put name and description of your report. Later you can find it from report section of NPMRDS. 

 If you want to learn more indepth for Data Parameter setting, click [here](https://npmrds.availabs.org/g/guide/data-params/) to see "Route Component Data Parameters Guide."
