---
title: Step 1
subtitle: Create Routes
date: 2017-10-01T12:00:10.000Z
tag: 0701
guideNumber: 7
image1: img/blog/quick-guide-1.jpg
image2: img/blog/quick-guide-1b.jpg
image3: img/blog/quick-guide-1c.jpg
---

# &nbsp; 
#### Image 1: Create Routes via the Dashboard
Click on "Create a Custom Route" from the Dashboard (Home) to open the Route Creation Controls window. 

#### Image 2: Design Your Custom Route
 In Route Creation Controls, zoom in on the area with the roadways you are interested in. To build a route, you’ll place pins on the map by using ctrl+left-click. Place a start and end pin. For more complex routes, you can place additional pins. On divided highways or other roadways with separated lanes of opposing traffic in NPMRDS, be careful to place the start and end pins in the lanes that correspond to the correct traffic direction.
 The TMC list on left menu allows you to view which TMCs are contained in your route. You can highlight the TMCs on the map by scrolling over the TMCs in the table, and remove TMCs by clicking on them in the table.

#### Image 3: Name Your Route and Save
Enter a name for your route and click the "Save Route" button. A window will pop up confirming that your route was saved successfully. Click “Load RouteComponent” to open the route reporting and visualization tools. From there you will be able to create a custom report, choose from previously created templates, or create a new template.

For a more in-depth guide on creating routes, click [**here**](https://npmrds.availabs.org/g/guide/create-route/) to view the "Create Route Guide."
